This package was debianized by James A. Treacy treacy@debian.org on Thu,
6 Jan 2000 01:11:34 -0500.  It was newly debianized by Marcelo E.
Magallon <mmagallo@debian.org> on Sat, 25 Dec 2004 14:50:02 -0600.

It was downloaded from http://www.mesa3d.org/download.html

For more information see:

  http://www.mesa3d.org/

Copyright:

Upstream Author: Brian Paul <brian.paul@tungstengraphics.com>

License:

                    License / Copyright Information

   The Mesa distribution consists of several components. Different
   copyrights and licenses apply to different components. For
   example, GLUT is copyrighted by Mark Kilgard, some demo programs
   are copyrighted by SGI, some of the Mesa device drivers are
   copyrighted by their authors. See below for a list of Mesa's
   components and the copyright/license for each.

   The core Mesa library is licensed according to the terms of the
   XFree86 copyright (an MIT-style license). This allows integration
   with the XFree86/DRI project. Unless otherwise stated, the Mesa
   source code and documentation is licensed as follows:

 Copyright (C) 1999-2003  Brian Paul   All Rights Reserved.

 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
 copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
 to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
 the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
 and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
 Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
 in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
 OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
 BRIAN PAUL BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
 AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
 CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

                        Attention, Contributors

   When contributing to the Mesa project you must agree to relinquish
   your work to the holder of the copyright for the particular
   component you're contributing to. That is, you can't put your own
   copyright on the code, unless it's a modular piece that can be
   omitted from Mesa (like a new device driver). If for example, you
   contribute a bug fix to Mesa's texture mapping code, your code
   will become a part of the body of work which is copyrighted by
   Brian Paul and licensed by the above terms.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Some files, as listed below, are made available under the SGI Free B 
license.  This license is as follows:

           SGI FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE B (Version 1.1 [02/22/2000])

1.  Definitions.

1.1. "Additional Notice Provisions" means such additional provisions as
     appear in the Notice in Original Code under the heading "Additional
     Notice Provisions."

1.2. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications, or any
     combination thereof.

1.3. "Hardware" means any physical device that accepts input, processes
     input, stores the results of processing, and/or provides output.

1.4. "Larger Work" means a work that combines Covered Code or portions
     thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.5. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
     possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently
     acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.

1.6. "License" means this document.

1.7. "Licensed Patents" means patent claims Licensable by SGI that are
     infringed by the use or sale of Original Code or any Modifications
     provided by SGI, or any combination thereof.

1.8. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the
     substance or structure of the Original Code or any previous
     Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files,
     a Modification is: 

     A. Any addition to the contents of a file containing Original Code
        and/or addition to or deletion from the contents of a file
        containing previous Modifications.

     B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or
        previous Modifications.

1.9. "Notice" means any notice in Original Code or Covered Code, as
     required by and in compliance with this License.

1.10. "Original Code" means source code of computer software code that
      is described in the source code Notice required by Exhibit A as
      Original Code, and updates and error corrections specifically 
      thereto.

1.11. "Recipient" means an individual or a legal entity exercising
      rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License
      or a future version of this License issued under Section 8. For
      legal entities, "Recipient" includes any entity that controls, is
      controlled by, or is under common control with Recipient. For
      purposes of this definition, "control" of an entity means (a) the
      power, direct or indirect, to direct or manage such entity, or (b)
      ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares
      or beneficial ownership of such entity.

1.12. "Recipient Patents" means patent claims Licensable by a Recipient
      that are infringed by the use or sale of Original Code or any
      Modifications provided by SGI, or any combination thereof.

1.13. "SGI" means Silicon Graphics, Inc.

1.14. "SGI Patents" means patent claims Licensable by SGI other than the
      Licensed Patents.

2.  License Grant and Restrictions.

2.1. SGI License Grant. Subject to the terms of this License and any
     third party intellectual property claims, for the duration of
     intellectual property protections inherent in the Original Code,
     SGI hereby grants Recipient a worldwide, royalty-free,
     non-exclusive license, to do the following: (i) under copyrights
     Licensable by SGI, to reproduce, distribute, create derivative
     works from, and, to the extent applicable, display and perform the
     Original Code and/or any Modifications provided by SGI alone and/or
     as part of a Larger Work; and (ii) under any Licensable Patents, to
     make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import and/or otherwise
     transfer the Original Code and/or any Modifications provided by
     SGI. Recipient accepts the terms and conditions of this License by
     undertaking any of the aforementioned actions. The patent license
     shall apply to the Covered Code if, at the time any related
     Modification is added, such addition of the Modification causes
     such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent
     license in Section 2.1(ii) shall not apply to any other
     combinations that include the Modification. No patent license is
     provided under SGI Patents for infringements of SGI Patents by
     Modifications not provided by SGI or combinations of Original Code
     and Modifications not provided by SGI.

2.2. Recipient License Grant. Subject to the terms of this License and
     any third party intellectual property claims, Recipient hereby
     grants SGI and any other Recipients a worldwide, royalty-free,
     non-exclusive license, under any Recipient Patents, to make, have
     made, use, sell, offer for sale, import and/or otherwise transfer
     the Original Code and/or any Modifications provided by SGI.

2.3. No License For Hardware Implementations. The licenses granted in
     Section 2.1 and 2.2 are not applicable to implementation in
     Hardware of the algorithms embodied in the Original Code or any
     Modifications provided by SGI .

3.  Redistributions. 

3.1. Retention of Notice/Copy of License. The Notice set forth in
     Exhibit A, below, must be conspicuously retained or included in any
     and all redistributions of Covered Code. For distributions of the
     Covered Code in source code form, the Notice must appear in every
     file that can include a text comments field; in executable form,
     the Notice and a copy of this License must appear in related
     documentation or collateral where the Recipient’s rights relating
     to Covered Code are described. Any Additional Notice Provisions
     which actually appears in the Original Code must also be retained
     or included in any and all redistributions of Covered Code.

3.2. Alternative License. Provided that Recipient is in compliance with
     the terms of this License, Recipient may, so long as without
     derogation of any of SGI’s rights in and to the Original Code,
     distribute the source code and/or executable version(s) of Covered
     Code under (1) this License; (2) a license identical to this
     License but for only such changes as are necessary in order to
     clarify Recipient’s role as licensor of Modifications; and/or (3) a
     license of Recipient’s choosing, containing terms different from
     this License, provided that the license terms include this Section
     3 and Sections 4, 6, 7, 10, 12, and 13, which terms may not be
     modified or superseded by any other terms of such license. If
     Recipient elects to use any license other than this License,
     Recipient must make it absolutely clear that any of its terms which
     differ from this License are offered by Recipient alone, and not by
     SGI. It is emphasized that this License is a limited license, and,
     regardless of the license form employed by Recipient in accordance
     with this Section 3.2, Recipient may relicense only such rights, in
     Original Code and Modifications by SGI, as it has actually been
     granted by SGI in this License.

3.3. Indemnity. Recipient hereby agrees to indemnify SGI for any
     liability incurred by SGI as a result of any such alternative
     license terms Recipient offers.

4.  Termination. This License and the rights granted hereunder will
    terminate automatically if Recipient breaches any term herein and
    fails to cure such breach within 30 days thereof. Any sublicense to 
    the Covered Code that is properly granted shall survive any
    termination of this License, absent termination by the terms of such
    sublicense. Provisions that, by their nature, must remain in effect
    beyond the termination of this License, shall survive.

5.  No Trademark Or Other Rights. This License does not grant any rights
    to: (i) any software apart from the Covered Code, nor shall any
    other rights or licenses not expressly granted hereunder arise by
    implication, estoppel or otherwise with respect to the Covered Code;
    (ii) any trade name, trademark or service mark whatsoever, including
    without limitation any related right for purposes of endorsement or
    promotion of products derived from the Covered Code, without prior
    written permission of SGI; or (iii) any title to or ownership of the
    Original Code, which shall at all times remains with SGI. All rights
    in the Original Code not expressly granted under this License are
    reserved.

6.  Compliance with Laws; Non-Infringement. There are various worldwide
    laws, regulations, and executive orders applicable to dispositions
    of Covered Code, including without limitation export, re-export, and
    import control laws, regulations, and executive orders, of the U.S.
    government and other countries, and Recipient is reminded it is
    obliged to obey such laws, regulations, and executive orders.
    Recipient may not distribute Covered Code that (i) in any way
    infringes (directly or contributorily) any intellectual property
    rights of any kind of any other person or entity or (ii) breaches
    any representation or warranty, express, implied or statutory, to
    which, under any applicable law, it might be deemed to have been
    subject.

7.  Claims of Infringement. If Recipient learns of any third party claim
    that any disposition of Covered Code and/or functionality wholly or
    partially infringes the third party's intellectual property rights,
    Recipient will promptly notify SGI of such claim.

8.  Versions of the License. SGI may publish revised and/or new versions
    of the License from time to time, each with a distinguishing version
    number. Once Covered Code has been published under a particular
    version of the License, Recipient may, for the duration of the
    license, continue to use it under the terms of that version, or
    choose to use such Covered Code under the terms of any subsequent
    version published by SGI. Subject to the provisions of Sections 3
    and 4 of this License, only SGI may modify the terms applicable to
    Covered Code created under this License.

9.  DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS." ALL
    EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS ARE DISCLAIMED,
    INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS
    OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
    PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. SGI ASSUMES NO RISK AS TO THE QUALITY
    AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE
    IN ANY RESPECT, SGI ASSUMES NO COST OR LIABILITY FOR SERVICING,
    REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY IS AN ESSENTIAL
    PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED
    HEREUNDER EXCEPT SUBJECT TO THIS DISCLAIMER.

10.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES NOR LEGAL THEORY,
     WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, NEGLIGENCE OR STRICT
     LIABILITY), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL SGI OR ANY SGI LICENSOR
     BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
     CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT
     LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, LOSS OF
     DATA, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
     COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN
     INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF
     LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY
     RESULTING FROM SGI's NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
     PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE
     EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO
     THAT EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO RECIPIENT.

11.  Indemnity. Recipient shall be solely responsible for damages
     arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights
     under this License. Recipient will defend, indemnify and hold
     harmless Silicon Graphics, Inc. from and against any loss,
     liability, damages, costs or expenses (including the payment of
     reasonable attorneys fees) arising out of Recipient's use,
     modification, reproduction and distribution of the Covered Code or
     out of any representation or warranty made by Recipient.

12.  U.S. Government End Users. The Covered Code is a "commercial item"
     consisting of "commercial computer software" as such terms are
     defined in title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations and all U.S.
     Government End Users acquire only the rights set forth in this
     License and are subject to the terms of this License.

13.  Miscellaneous. This License represents the complete agreement
     concerning the its subject matter. If any provision of this License
     is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed so as
     to achieve as nearly as possible the same legal and economic effect
     as the original provision and the remainder of this License will
     remain in effect. This License shall be governed by and construed
     in accordance with the laws of the United States and the State of
     California as applied to agreements entered into and to be
     performed entirely within California between California residents.
     Any litigation relating to this License shall be subject to the
     exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern
     District of California (or, absent subject matter jurisdiction in
     such courts, the courts of the State of California), with venue
     lying exclusively in Santa Clara County, California, with the
     losing party responsible for costs, including without limitation,
     court costs and reasonable attorneys fees and expenses. The
     application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
     International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or
     regulation that provides that the language of a contract shall be
     construed against the drafter shall not apply to this License.

Exhibit A

License Applicability. Except to the extent portions of this file are
made subject to an alternative license as permitted in the SGI Free
Software License B, Version 1.1 (the "License"), the contents of this
file are subject only to the provisions of the License. You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at Silicon Graphics, Inc., attn: Legal Services, 1600
Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043-1351, or at:

http://oss.sgi.com/projects/FreeB

Note that, as provided in the License, the Software is distributed on an
"AS IS" basis, with ALL EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS
DISCLAIMED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND
CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.

Original Code. The Original Code is: [name of software, version number,
and release date], developed by Silicon Graphics, Inc. The Original Code
is Copyright (c) [dates of first publication, as appearing in the Notice
in the Original Code] Silicon Graphics, Inc. Copyright in any portions
created by third parties is as indicated elsewhere herein. All Rights
Reserved.

Additional Notice Provisions: [such additional provisions, if any, as 
appear in the Notice in the Original Code under the heading "Additional 
Notice Provisions"]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some other files listed below are made available from Silicon Graphics,
Inc. under a more liberal, MIT-style license, as follows:

   Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for
   any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
   copyright notice appear in all copies and that both the copyright notice
   and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
   the name of Silicon Graphics, Inc. not be used in advertising
   or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
   written prior permission.

   THE MATERIAL EMBODIED ON THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS"
   AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE
   INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT SHALL SILICON
   GRAPHICS, INC.  BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANYONE ELSE FOR ANY DIRECT,
   SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY
   KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION,
   LOSS OF PROFIT, LOSS OF USE, SAVINGS OR REVENUE, OR THE CLAIMS OF
   THIRD PARTIES, WHETHER OR NOT SILICON GRAPHICS, INC.  HAS BEEN
   ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS, HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
   ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
   POSSESSION, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
   
   US Government Users Restricted Rights
   Use, duplication, or disclosure by the Government is subject to
   restrictions set forth in FAR 52.227.19(c)(2) or subparagraph
   (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
   clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 and/or in similar or successor
   clauses in the FAR or the DOD or NASA FAR Supplement.
   Unpublished-- rights reserved under the copyright laws of the
   United States.  Contractor/manufacturer is Silicon Graphics,
   Inc., 2011 N.  Shoreline Blvd., Mountain View, CA 94039-7311.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Mesa Component Licenses:

 Component       Files                 Primary Author      License
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 core Mesa code  src/*.[ch]            Brian Paul          Mesa
                 include/GL/gl.h

 GLX driver      src/X/*               Brian Paul          Mesa
                 include/GL/glx.h
                 include/GL/xmesa.h

 OS/Mesa driver  src/OSmesa/*          Brian Paul          Mesa
                 include/GL/osmesa.h

 3Dfx driver     src/FX/*              David Bucciarelli   Mesa
                 include/GL/fxmesa.h

 BeOS R4 driver  mesa/drivers/beos/    Brian Paul          Mesa

 MGL driver      include/GL/mglmesa.h  SciTech, Inc        GNU LGPL

 Windows driver  mesa/drivers/windows/ Li Wei              GNU LGPL
                 include/GL/wmesa.h

 SVGA driver     mesa/drivers/svga/    Brian Paul          GNU LGPL
                 include/GL/svgamesa.h

 DOS driver      mesa/drivers/dos/     Charlie Wallace     GNU LGPL
                 include/GL/dosmesa.h

 GGI driver      mesa/drivers/ggi/     Uwe Maurer          GNU LGPL
                 include/GL/ggimesa.h

 GLUT            src/glut/*            Mark Kilgard        Mark's copyright
                 include/GL/*glut*.h

 GLU library     src/glu/*             Brian Paul          GNU LGPL

 SGI GLU library src/glu/sgi/*         SGI                 SGI Free B
                 include/GL/glu.h

 Ext registry    include/GL/glext.h    SGI                 SGI Free B
                 include/GL/glxext.h

 demo programs   progs/demos/*         various             see source files

 X demos         progs/xdemos/*        Brian Paul          see source files

 SGI demos       progs/samples/*       SGI                 SGI MIT-style

 RedBook demos   progs/redbook/*       SGI                 SGI MIT-style


    On Debian systems the full text of the GNU LGPL license is found in
    /usr/share/common-licenses/LGPL.
